order
 The special sitting of the federal court of appeal is now open the yarn will met him Justice Gautier The Honorable Mr. Justice Webb and the envelope metam Justice Riverland are presiding the court calls found numbers a101 -10 and a 102 Dash 18 Radu ho Jung and the minister of Public Safety and emergency preparedness. The Helen will be representing himself in Mr. Peterson will be representing the response.
 Good morning.
 First the question. What is the meaning of spending is that?
 Is a request for the court to consider a decision of a lower court or another Authority in decision-making capacity.
 Is that about correct
 in this particular case yesterday it was?
 Now this is a motion. Okay, and I'm emotion from a trial court. We applied the standard of review that means our judge whether we can intervene for not according to a case called thousand.
 If it is a question of love, we apply the correctness we see if it's correct. And if it is an exactly know or things like that, which normally is
 a question of summary judgment is normally exactly know maybe not in this case. It's it's palpable and overriding are and that's a very I stand we have to become there was no records whatsoever to ground.
 the findings
 Of course my question
 okay with you understand it like I
 do my question was more General someone more General. It was directed to the word appeal not necessarily in this course. Yeah, because it is referred. For example in the federal court the case before us has to do with the Customs that where there's a word there that says a decision of the minister may be appealed in a federal court.
 Yes, but you have to be careful.
 with one understands of the word appeal in a statue
 does not always mean the same thing the Supreme Court told us that in several statue the word appeal means almost so it's like
 It's a difficult. But in this case why is relevant to your cakes because what is before us?
 Is the decision of Justice?
 Yes, the decision was just English.
 No, don't worry. I mean this is
 they don't be relaxed the first the first Essence started as an appeal of a decision of the minister of Public Safety under one person's mind section 135 the language in the Customs Act was
 that the decision is appealed to the medical. So my question is what does the word appeal mean in such a setting does it not mean? I'm requesting the court to have a look at The Minister's decision. Yes.
 But I'm not sure that this is really all that relevant to what is important.
 It will be.
 Okay. So you like to explain that?
 Yes, of course second question is
 In the context of the Courts of the federal courts, what is an act of Parliament?
 My understanding is that it is.
 That is just it's not a procedural. It's not a procedural rule.
 It is a piece of evidence is evidence of the truth against which the court measures.
 Um,
 it's a nice apartment
 it is that's correct. But what is it to you? Is it evidence? Is it rules? Is it procedural?
 It's not
 it's not the measuring stick.
 Yes.
 so and after Parliament
 Set out what the truth is. It's something that you
 wrote it has nothing to do with the dog or the dog is the law and the true relates to evidence.
 All right.
 So when you are asked to take an act of parliament under traditional review
 Does that not mean that
 we're not taking an act of parliament under judicial review not under 135 we're looking at the whether or not there is a contraction that's a factual and legal question. If there was a comfortable under the constant. We're not discussing the validity of the custom.
 My wording was was was working. What I meant to say is when you take
 an act of parliament under traditional notice according to the Canada Evidence Act
 The court has to take back the parliament as judicial notice.
 Does not mean that you
 okay, where are they? Just we have two hours. Okay, three hours for your two files.
 It's nice. If you want to raise all kinds of culinary questions, but you will have to get to the meat that's what we have to decide
 very well. I always get this one.
 Very important question for me. They originally the first distance.
 Wasn't the process and it was quite substantial substantially in terms of evidence provided the appealable.
 for the motion
 for Amendment for summer judgment was substantial.
 sum 700 pages
 my question to you is
 give me that my presentation today is aims to succeed at convincing other was a an overriding are and that you have to drink.
 What is spent am I required to do?
 orginal
 Um, in other words,
 they just think that says before us are the two Appeals.
 Okay, if two of their books.
 For me it feels because one has several so that's what before us.
 I don't know yet how you want to proceed. So if you worked proceed then I would be helping you by saying you have evidence. We can't talk to them in here.
 Of course. My question is in case I convinced you that that your intervention is required.
 What what this case be returned back to the federal court for the determination. Would you determine the facts? Where would I we
 don't determine facts?
 So would it go back to the drug court then?
 It depends on what they says we intervene.
 We can't make fun things.
 So if all the facts don't need to be determined and it's a pure question at all we can decide.
 It's not that if there's a reassessment of the others.
 Then we send it back.
 All right, very good. Perfect that answers to my first trip. My last one is I noticed that the deficiency of my book of authority of authorities for the a101 case, which is the amendment.
 I noticed that I entered the wrong.
 Section of the Trail Court rules I would like to submit around.
 That's the responsibility.
 The federal court rules I have I had quoted I meant to include rules 76.
 And 200 which are relevant to memory.
 So don't worry. We don't know we will find it.
 All right.
 So that your time and patience and over again?
 Are they just start with one-to-one, which is the amendment motion. I will be.
 Have two words to presenting the the reason.
 Why amendments are necessary why the members are done at all?
 And how they fit with the rest of the preceding.
 What's their purpose and me then? I will describe the overriding and palpable errors that an ocean. Judge May and after this I will close by.
 By showing why you should intervene and change the
 clock decision now.
 How are you? I don't know how much time you need to.
 What was the I just want you to have that
 was much more than that. I have just killed it down to
 buy
 locked.
 So
 how much time do you think the two?
 Presentation
 for both of you. I think I will need the entire time I made and go over time.
 I made we won't go over.
 There we go.
 I may not be able to finish.
 in the
 in
 the cell phone what I would suggest to you. Okay, and you decide what you want to do, but I was suggest to you that as a court of appeal. We know very well.
 What is the meaning of an amendment and the rules has to do it?
 If I were you, I would really dig immediately into why there's an error.
 seriously
 You can't trust us. We know the rules about them. Okay?
 That's where you'll have more time. Yes.
 However, I would like to very very briefly talk about the meaning honorable to you know.
 ordinary action the purpose of the amendments to the cleanings are to set the
 agenda for for the procedure that is to inform both the defendant and of course as to what the issues and questions are such that there are no surprise is to either party and such that their the defendants rights are protected such that they can prepare for for the eventual trial.
 Um, according to the federal court rules amendments can be made at very stages of the proceeding with or without legal of the Court.
 As before the dependent given submits a reply.
 Amendment can be made without without even
 being that in this case. The statement of Defense had been
 Yes,
 so that's a that's a reply. So that means you need the leaf of the Court,
 correct?
 Okay, so let's get on with
 My point is that even after that the defense is is entered.
 Their the parties can still consent.
 No, I mean.
 was considered
 If there is a consent, but it's still the court that this up
 everything.
 I will then skip to the powerful Bears. So on the emotional format the motion judge.
 the most
 visible problem of errors that take considered evidence and deciding the motion which is something that
 he is not permitted to consider oriented with the federal court rules. And also according to the Ontario civil procedure.
 Okay, why don't you turn to the rules which rules says that he doesn't have the right to look at that and
 the automation
 High
 Let's have a look.
 That's which case
 Fisher.
 23
 I don't have pages and that's what I'm
 gonna be at the bottom of the page bottom line.
 Yes, but age 23 for me is a tax axis.
 the excise tax act
 the latest Authority book
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 My friend as a book.
 And the same book with different pages.
 Okay Bauer.
 as my colleague said
 So you have the same one. You don't have the Devourer?
 Okay. Okay. I don't know why
 I'm saying one may see it.
 Yes.
 This is one of two
 your friend to 102
 know. This is the book for one or two.
 But you said you were dealing with 101.
 I'm dealing with one-on-one, but somehow the printing.
 They must have fallen the the front pages.
 The covers.
 Okay.
 No problem.
 You're referring to the decision.
 Which paragraph
 paragraph 16?
 Stinky. Yes.
 When determining whether amendment should be allowed to the church setting the matter Joshua capable of getting
 instructions
 for being struck in the middle court rules.
 Are is rule number?
 in 2121
 But there are several paragraphs.
 And only the paragraph no reasonable cause of action. You don't look at evidence all the other paragraph you look at it.
 Yes
 generous, correct.
 So if the church things that there's no chance of success or taxation or and that's the another paragraph that you want one where is entitled to look at it?
 Yes. However in those in this case those were not considered for those other points the church didn't look what was immaterial or redundant material. He didn't look at whether there was candles. He was no language like that in his decision.
 Oh, okay. Let's look at the decision.
 is order
 Yes, power
 power antenna.
 Yes, so that's the same case you refer to
 yes.
 And the proposed extending that came to not demonstrate their reasonable chance of success.
 I guess you're under the test for
 for emotions to amend is
 I was
 I think most authoritatively rested by the federal court by the Supreme Court and Imperial tobacco.
 Yes,
 which is records by these other cases.
 Yes.
 very little case is that
 page
 So yeah, but that was also that 22 a 2.18 it was the there was no reasonable cause of action so there he don't look at evidence.
 well, perhaps it would then be
 helpful for me to look at why MMS are necessary what their life cycle is why why and when evidence should not considered in a case that emotion to amend would be
 Dismissed that is the client will be blocked from being heard. The plaintiff can always submit.
 That many men as a new option.
 As a new statement of Clans to pursue the same dispute because just by blocking the amendment does not result. It is just so the plaintiff would then
 get it as a new action.
 based on the same material thoughts
 It's always because
 you say if he doesn't allow the amendments.
 Their claim as it was is still before the court. Is that what you
 said is, correct?
 Okay. So the same before the court is still and that brings us to the second appeal.
 Because you see these things are very much linked.
 Yeah.
 But the Amendments the proposed amendments are are left in the air. They're not
 having discarded.
 Allow them you're saying that they still exist in that there's still a cause of action.
 That's available to you.
 There's something adding to something that goes over there.
 Well, you are one of the Amendments doesn't produce any costs about
 which one
 that is the one that
All right proposed on them.
 You're adding two defendants.
 I might put a defenders in their capacity as a crowned as agents of the crown.
 Okay, 25 just by I'm looking now at the age of 48 Bill booking.
 That is Amanda the underlying
 yes,
 which one has the new Car Connection?
 The claim is that the CBS history commits under 16th South America RC. The CBC is circulates the internal operations. Thank you.
 and
 61
 so that's
 60 16 C is on page 60
 page. Yes, 16 C is on page 161
 I have a home page
 660.
 Is that the cbsa?
 For me, it's page 60.
 So I don't know why but okay. So that's the important thing. We have the right pair. So you're saying this is a new cause an action
 it alleges that they
 say is involved in Monday.
 but that's not it's just
 Isn't it just a remedy? Because you've already said that you thought that you was
 enabling
 I just had not mentioned money laundering if you are my longer is a new cause of action in the Amendments before that in the original statement of
 Planting my head suspected that it was something that's
 good. So what else is a new cause
 and there's a lot
 of underlining.
 Yes, but most of this is really.
 All related you see you cannot come to 16 and plain unless you've had allegation in the first part.
 So there are allegations that are linked to these.
 Because you see like that these this is not a new cause of action. It's just
 you're making education of fat that would bring you into whatever remedy you're asking.
 Well, if I find religion that CBS is a criminal organization.
 Okay, let's not lose too much time on this. Okay. So here saying let's say 17 a is a new plane because it's finished.
 There before that was there before.
 So that this new apart from that because you didn't ask for 2004 we did ask for 15,000.
 I'm just not seeing.
 New cause of action that would stand on their own.
 the honor this
 without finding specifically the paragraph because they're so many that I had touched the allegation of
 money laundering and criminal organization are new.
 Okay, and what what's the point of this do you were saying that these would stand on their own in another proceedings?
 They can be pursued on their own. So
 now there's not Time bar.
 You have the time limitation issue. You cannot take an action, you know 20 years from the date of the events and say I have this
 is correct. But at the time that they maybe was proposed.
 I had only just learned about the money laundering.
 Okay, you can always what you're saying is that you can
 take a separate action. Is that what you're
 saying? Well, yes.
 Okay. So why don't you that's what you say
 because that would not be the most vicious and and this cost way to reach Justice.
 Okay, that's your argument for why you made an error?
 Because we have to make sense of this.
 Well, you are my argument is that he used evidence where shouldn't have?
 the court
 I'm sorry. My presentation is
 no I'm just trying to make sure that I don't want to miss what you're saying.
 You started with that. Okay that you should not have look at that. I thought
 well, you said that he may not look at evidence on
 2.181 a but it can't accept there's a they are exception under eight for to addiction. For example.
Well, they're not stated in their rules. You're on.
 Yeah, but they're stated in the case of
 that's very cute in their role. It doesn't say and the thing that the rule is being construed by Caseville.
 and
 if I'm not mistaken, it's fun for
 That but anyway, I
 am
 operating we continue
 operating under the guidance of the Supreme Court.
 Says very clearly and without doubt.
 All
 okay. Let's let's
 continue
 and 23
What is impossible to enumerate all the factors that a judge must take into participation determining whether an adjustment?
 Where is it whether it is just a given case to authorizing Amendment. The general rules is that an amendment should be allowed at any state or the action for the purpose of determining their real questions and controversy between the department provided notably that the allowance will not result in an injustice.
 For the other party and not capable of being Complicated by an award of costs.
 That's good. That's good. As I told you don't lose too much time on the law. We can read it
 in case you're under that is oh I have for
 this presentation
 that's that's
 wrong in using evidence
 and that would be an airplane.
 specifically
 Or it might be an error in his that is a reasons are not clear enough as to which paragraph he was looking at.
 Well the owner in a few words I can demonstrate why looking at sectional 106 which is what the defendant proposed is flawed to look at that point. And that's for
 the amendment.
 No, one of the Customs out.
 Yes, but we're now looking at are you
 on the amendment? I'm only doing with the members so far. I'm understanding that. We're addressing these two cases separately.
 No, but what your hour and a half is for the two of them?
 It's three hours for both.
 Yes. We are only dealing with
 so what
 do you want to say about so
 many six the pendant proposed officers wear?
 Would not be liable.
 For their actions under the custom job.
 Yes.
 Nobody do not be liable. Not under the customer's of
 Activities.
 Yes
 under the Customs act and yes, they are nothing for someone
 okay, if they are not in pursuant.
 The crown cannot be the scariest sleep liable.
 You cannot sue the crown for something done outside of their duties. You can sue them but you cannot sue the crown.
 Well the crown
 either they are inside their Duty and the crown because of the employer are liable for them.
 Okay, they cherish me or they're not doing it on their Duty then they are responsible for it.
 Well, they're not doing it in their personal capacity.
 What if they're doing a frog that's what you're saying? They're doing a fraud. It's and it's outside of the customer. You're trying to get out of Windows 6 to get out of Windows 6. You have to get out of the crust on that and you have to get out of the vicarious liability of the front.
 You know, the word is
 not really
 cares means you are responsible for your agents and employees for what he did in the performance of their Duty.
 See what
 and
 so you could sue them personally.
 And that may not come under one was six if it is outside of their Duty.
 But that's not be within the jurisdiction of our core because we only can entertain that kind of action against the crown itself,
 correct?
 The other person assuming that the thought is true.
 Assuming that the fact is traded
 are true.
 Fraud would have to be one of the tools that these officers are allowed to employ to implement the custom job.
 They have a number of activities that they can employers actually searches questioning.
 I'm sorry, you're saying that they are entitled to use fraud as a mean of performing their Duty
 I'm saying they are not.
 Okay, and
 that's why the protection 106 does not protect them from yes,
 and how do you
 Why do you think that the crown can be liable for something that is not within their Duty?
 And their Duty under the customers that
 you know, putting their duty of anything to abroad.
 they were doing the Frog as a
Um, they were justifying it as implementing the Customs app.
 So their cover was that their
 their Duty
 If we had met on the street and they asked me for for my coins, I would not have given this to them as a personal as a person.
 as an individual I only gave him my coins because they were
 young in case you know that you
 for one was it?
 And that they could not apply to the front.
 the one Florida I can point to
 is about to
 yes,
 which is
 already for one of two and I referring to
 versus Canada pitch 46
 Network and no check
 their
 second
 the case that I have
 is all about
 No at 46 mm.
 the courgette
 second loss on the four days
 just a second.
 I don't have a 46 in the other one so attached.
 Yes, it is one of the longer table.
 Yes and my page 46.
 Oh, is it because you didn't?
 Did you just put Pages without the front and just a page out of the text?
 Yes.
 the
 point about that case though just to bring us back to the
 point is that under paragraph 30 if if illegal acts are really done from the motive other than a modest drive to execute a statutory or legal Duty.
 Then the public of that towards the end. The public authorities Act is not Advanced for the acts complaint.
 Of are not done in the headache execution of a statute, but only in the pretended execution Darrow.
 that's
 not
 the one of the tools that they can employ they were however using
 pretending to access customers officers pretending that these coins where goes so that they could see them and request their
 understanding for something that's outside of their Duty.
 Uh, and that's the crown is the act.
 Do you have
 they were on
 just a second have you put Council the prom night identity and section?
 I have
 the
 color liability.
 is 101
 11
 at age 12
 for the damage for which it could wear a person it would be liable.
 Yes, and
 any other problems in respect of a torque committed by a servant of the crown?
 the full
 I don't know if the
 things you brought
 the same thing
 outside of their duties totally
 Responsible so we have to look at this
 but they
 just saying don't have it before you before us we'll have to look at
 all right?
Good. So what will do is to make sure that you have?
 I don't want to construe 31.
 Okay, 3 a little eye without you being able to make submissions on it.
 So I would
 give you.
 Or Thursday with the end of the Linux Monday.
 Be a good you can write to the court and say here are some Authority that I would like to submit to show that a fraud would come with them.
 three
 I'm not able to I am out of the my home country for a week.
 I live in Mexico I have for much of the time I came here specialty.
 Um, can I have two weeks?
 Until the following.
 Yes it just that we won't be so long as the case is not closed. We cannot render a decision if I give you two weeks.
 I'm just saying I don't know when you'll get your decision because we sit everywhere.
 and the time to write your case by the next week, so
 well, in any case I have I have no way of getting of sitting down and looking at this until
 at the very least Wednesday
 the earliest Wednesday
 Okay, so, okay. You'll have to wait.
 that means
 And you understand what we're looking for.
 Um, my understanding is that you are looking for representations as to why the crowd of the
 Sure, and I can meet their pointed out. We're looking at three B.
 little I
 because it's not the province of today.
 Another problem.
 Yes.
 Okay, so three
 so why should be like in
 the case of would apply to make the crown viable for fraud?
 for frog permitted outside of their
 Are we making this assumption that if they were working on the clock and working on?
 working on this feature
 that they are outside of their doing.
 They are trying to
 that's what you are supposed to I'm giving you a chance to argue this point.
 Okay.
 Thank you.
 Wow, that is all I have for 8411.
 for just additions I would like to move on to
 and obviously
 the other side will have the right to respond
 respond. Yes,
 there are.
 numerous probable errors
 to discuss the first one
 the judge was required to find whether
 section 1.02
 let me these backtrack and he's saying
 and explain the larger picture
 in the 102 and the
 motion for
 summary judgment
 the defendant made for presentation
 to guide the way the case was considered he
 completed
 and appeal under Section
 132 135
 135 with the purpose of the entire action.
 He
 represented that
 Wherever section 1325 claim appears.
 The preceding is a special type of proceeding that is outside of those defined under the federal court rules. He said he said that it is not neither an application for you neither.
 An ordinary action, neither a simplified action neither a class action.
 He alleges that an appeal is just a different type of proceeding where the cord is being asked to.
 reconsider
 a new the decision that was before Minister. He represents that.
 The job of the task before the judge was to decide.
 in The Minister's place
 based on new evidence
 was it was a contradiction or not?
 Guiding the preceding this way can only lead to.
 an outcome in his favor
 and it is incorrect the an appeal.
 Under 16001 305 is simply one plane.
 that can be entered as part of the
 ordinary National
 the preceding type
 that you're allowed to make a 135 claim under is an ordinary action.
 and the
 appeal is only one of
 the claims available
 However, there is nothing in the Customs act that preclude a plated from.
 From joining other other claims that arise from the same class from the same details.
 Do you agree because the judge on two cases start?
 a decision
 Are we in Korean?
 Yes,
 and now
 these two cases deal with
 And that an action or a negation?
 Consisting the amount of tenant.
 You can test the amount of penalty interaction.
 No,
 okay. So do you agree that if we follow these cases because in that custom app?
 clear that to
 challenge a decision on the penalty
 you have to go to a judicial.
 I do not.
 Penalties.
 Yes, I do not.
 So you can't test that.
 Yes.
 Okay, even though you're not doing it.
 Correct.
 So
 you
 have
 everything
I believe
 star we was.
 In Star way, there were two issues.
 There was both with it whether they issue that there was a an infection and all so the issue of whether the minister could keep that line.
 He the dark specifically looked.
 And explained that it makes no sense to allow the defendant to keep.
 The terms of release if the decision was cannot stand.
 I'm sorry. Yeah.
 amount of the penalty one must apply for two children
 Before it has been determined that the case committed. This is an nominee. Okay.
 and everybody has said it's an enemy but
 Well, it may be an anomaly. I am referring to starway at my authority page 44 and 45.
 They're just 27 and 28.
 Okay
 start with
 20 seconds
 44
 That's that's an ordinary National. The only special rolling pose. Was that whether Mr. Start with it or not? Just kidding first of all.
 I will deal with this a little later. The amount of penalty is not an issue. This is a child mother paper review.
 Yes, and where does he say that you can dispute the penalty?
 In an action
 the next paragraph paragraph 28 begins with the next issue the position of the penalty not the amount of the road.
 The defendant submit that at best I can only declare and so on and so on.
 At the end of the paragraph the paragraph 28 Star Wars says since there was no infraction of the Customs act it follows that defendants cannot keep the amount forfeit.
 Yeah, but that's a different question. I was talking to you about the amount of dependents.
 I know that in your action, you do discuss that the amount was reduced by the minister.
 three
 once there is no contraction. What can you do? Obviously, there's no contributions. There's no control
 your others that the defendant states that the only available remedy for you for the court is to declare what it was will not contribute.
 He specifically says
 I didn't know nothing else, but you were going with okay. So you're trying to say under 135. What are the remnants?
 But what we're looking at now is whether you can.
 Be very cute and application.
 Or an ordinary action to contest the amount of dependent.
 Well, they are
 but there's an issue
 it is a client.
 I would like to point out ACL.
 I'm not I have to say I'm not 100% I just want to make sure we get your point on this.
 I would like to point out to ACL as another example where
 bringing it back to your
 part
 I'm saying that.
 just because
 a claim under Section 135 discontinued within an ordinary option. Yes.
 There is no provision in the Customs act to make it the exclusive claim that can be made in that ordinary action,
 right?
 There's no the customers that itself does not limit does not say that you may not have another claim that is related to
 the same time. And what's not clear is
 if it is clear in customary.
 certain issues need to be dealt with by judicial review
 certain decision
 That's that's the problem. I'm trying to eliminate. Is there anything in your plane?
 That would be comparable to the planes that were made in the two cases on which their Church relies.
 Which is just staring. Yes, there are multiple multiple claims multiple clamps in the same options.
 Is there any of those planes in your action?
 That are the same as the planes that were dealt with in Star Wars and
 New Year. Well, they're not the same claims.
 Not same
 at the same time.
 I think that's the point that you you want to make.
 It's not what is dealt with in those cases was something that needed to be done by application.
 not by actions
 we were to discuss the if I could if I were to address this issue of application versus action the Customs does not even require the amount of people just good by way of about the issue.
 Yes, but that's
 that's what it's supposed to be.
 This decision have to be about federal office.
 But all this must be done, you know, there can be a conversion if you want wet damages from that decision.
 And this is why I was pointing to ACL kind of so,
 yeah.
fish 42
 here in ACL the judge looked at section 135 claim and concluded at airglass 61.
 Yes
 third line from the bottom that
 under the section 135 the flame the Vintage action and this regard must be dismissed.
 within that regard
 which Regard
 in regard to section 135
 Okay, so
 why is that of interest to us? It seems to confirm with the judge was saying
 it's just so under 35 135.
 That specific claim can be dismissed. However, he went on to consider the claim under 1:33 and following paragraph paragraph 60.
 Actually the second following paragraph
 93 and also clean and declaration and it is in tactical to retainment and return of the forfeit himself.
 and
 63
 and it's a leader as a matter.
 Of 35 does not give them.
 That's right. And he says either 135 or otherwise under the act or the general jurisdiction of the Court.
 which which means that if if
 A relief thought was within the general jerk editions of the course. He would he would have to consider it.
 He did not consider the that relief only because he was concerning section one.
 33
 but you were relying on a passage.
 Where you said the judge confirmed that the court could give could make an order or for that. There's no money for people that was the previous case that you called.
 And now they're saying we don't have that jurisdiction. So these two cases will have to go and look at okay.
 if another if another remedy within the
 Action was within the general jurisdiction of the tradition of the Court. He would have to consider it.
 Yes. He says it's not within the jurisdiction for 50 that's come directly to what you just said before
 that's specific claim you are right,
 you know, what will be there because
 I found
 that we should be distinguishing to start.
 You know, no I'm not let me just finish my thought your I think saying that the judge was wrong and in.
 Losing those two cases through a lot of fun.
 Because of your case is differently, it can be distinguished and you're relying on ACL.
 to say that the court has
 more jurisdiction to deal with these matters. Is that is that what it is
 it is however in in
 yes, so we based on ACL the port does have more services addition to consider.
 your clients
 Visitors section one is 33 which is additional clients.
 Okay,
 so I want to make sure I understand your points. Okay?
 There's one which is a page 45. It would continue on reading his family after we talked about he pointed out these he says the money he can't keep the money that there's no one fraction.
 Then
 kind of playing on his self-portrait. There's allocation should be returned.
 Now, so was it just over your comments in
 the judge?
 Or do you have to order the money thing? Because they have to have the judgment.
 That will go on and even though they may not have jurisdiction to deal with something just point out the Trap as long as my decision. You really should do something even though it may not be able to order you to do something.
 I don't know if there was an order or
 it was just not well the seems to be logical thing you really
 should do.
 So we'll look at that. What?
 I would like post a point out and paragraph 63 of ACL.
 the judge did
 towards the end hate hands with I conclude that in order should go setting aside the minister determination made under section one, but his face and referring both Myers back for
 restoration
 by another judicator.
 So that means that even in an action in an ordinary action.
 Section 133 was good,
 you know what would read the case because that's why normally you shouldn't have a page like this. We don't have to have the whole case here have it all.
 Before but we'll look at so that's your third.
 What else do you want to say about 102?
 about jointer
 It's again.
 It's
 six of your rules
 Well, there's no claim of underwater systems.
 I'm talking about the rules. You're not talking.
 Yes, that will want to want.
 to
 subject to
 rules to a party to my request really good against another party as interesting in respect of more than one client.
 Yes.
 So it would be incorrect. So it was a palpable number right here for for the motion injection.
 To disallow this Rule and claimed that only a section 135 claim can be made in an ordinary action.
 when the rules of thrill Court obviously say otherwise
 anything else
 Yes.
 You're going very well.
 You're right.
 Yeah, that's why that's
 just to a party may occur the court May order separate clamps.
 Or many orders that came to be split or to be dealt with in a more convenient fashion.
 So with your saying is they should have split it.
 If you thought that this was completed as a dismissal,
 that's right.
 Okay.
 Because just ignoring and and the spacing claims without looking at them. There's no justice in that.
 it's not an interest or just
 okay.
 I'd like to point out.
 the X-ray stats are
 but this goes again to multiple.
 Preceding
 proceedings to multiple claims in the same proceeding.
 Yeah
 such.
 as
 I don't have my I wouldn't need a few seconds to find the section that I'm talking about
 the thing that just happened.
 It's in your book of a turkey.
 25 that I think 25 is the definition of money.
 the first year around 15
 I may have messed up or if you 1.28.
 and 18
 21 was in
 my house
 actually what I'm trying to make this knot is not doesn't seem to be
 I am a little.
 You know what we could do. Okay, because you're almost at the end of your time. Okay, but what would you will break for five minutes?
 The electric thoughts no
 reason to
 update and you pick the things that you are.
 Yeah,
 thank you.
 order
 resume
 Thank you.
 Give us an example of how if the parliament intended to limit.
 The claims available in an ordinary action and they can with specific language.
 And the exact side the state they State they specifically exclude their Rules by saying the rules concerning join their parties and causes of action do not apply except the prevent the jointer of appeals under that part.
 Which means?
 Which means that under the Customs activities no such limitation is given it cannot be implied. The chronometer does have the
 ability to do it
 I like to move on to the next point the next clear are the most engaging ignored the plaintiff evidence. The first one would have been currently the Currency Act section 11.
 Which is that?
 Which is authorities book page.
 That's where you want to do it the statute.
 It's not currency.
 It is evidence my understanding of both the answers that.
 The acts that I bring that I present to the court with my case,
 yes
 are part of my evidence but
 statutes are another their statutes. So don't worry. It means that it might be an error to steal an error.
 not consider
 relevant section
 so you're saying why is it relevant and
 it is relevant because specifically
 By the minister milk break down or otherwise otherwise known as currency any coin that is currently that are encounter.
 I like gone online to use otherwise, then it's currently.
 Relevant because the current status itself tells us that girls cannot be treated as Goods.
 If you're not being used as good as good as Goods or something else, it can only be used. It's only a token of current.
 is specifically
 so you're saying
 you should go to your argument.
 According to your head in this case for the US coin. Yes.
 I think
 they could have an account.
 They're not a good time in Canada.
 How does 111 apply?
 there's a pale apparel was drawn and it was on contested by other party that Quentin of the United States the treatment of the United States and in Canada are parallel and equivalent legislation and the rules that would apply to coins in to
 corresponding coins in Canada
 also applying to currency of the United States
 What can I have a similar points as the ones I had which are $50 gold coins and five dollar one dollar coins?
 So the point is that if the Canadian coins cannot can be not not treated cannot be treated as good or as something other than currency. Then the US coins cannot find it.
 It's not faces you say that.
 You honor the the United States public law. That is the that is the corresponding loss of the Canadian one to the Persia States. This has the same
 but in the world USAC only applies in the US.
 And the Canadian act applies in Canada?
 so I'm not understanding why the fact that
 If you ask coins are not currency in Canada a legal tender
 currency, they are currency in the United States.
 Yes.
 If there were Native coins.
 They could also not be considered Goods for the reasons of section one section 11.
 No question of my colleague was why would this act?
 apply to you whisper
 because it shows that kinetic coins are treated.
 in a specific way
 Yes,
 and it was never anything contention any
 energy because this section cannot apply Direct.
 The under the defense agreed that coins of the
 we don't care that the breeze or not.
 If it's a matter of know we need to know what your positions
 well in that case. I would have to present the current section from the United States.
 They're not.
 Okay. So what is saying is paragraph?
 section 11
 with apply if they were coins in Canadian bird seed
 you say my answer by analogy.
 We should treat the US the same way because the US act as absolutely no application here,
 correct.
 Okay, so it's by another.
 Next one. I like to point out that.
 the motion judge error significant are in accepting the defendant explanation not
 the Customs act applies to all Goods
 which is not true, they
 The Customs Act is activated specifically by the excise tax act. It doesn't just come into Force out of the blue for everything that you bring into Canada. For instance. If you import food or water or even my own vehicle that I was driving that day. I was not required to report it to declare it as important in Canada, even though I did in Portland in Canada.
 and
 I was not required to declare it. I did not declare it. It's not a problem. The question is why is this because it is a good it is quite valuable.
 And so on so we would the tests that he applied to the coins. The reason Goods in general are not immediately subjects. The Customs are is because the Customs the Customs act power is given by the exercise section 51
 which which tells us that that authorities page 15.
 about 15
 or 16
 we're described where
 maybe we can be more precise where
 of course session 15.8.
 50 sorry 50.1 50.1
 point B
 And then 51.
 so one
 So
 just a second one. I would just read it.
 Says that this section gives us what the purpose of the Customs Act is and is what octaves the Customs to act on things that are important.
 So it's only on
 Goods that are
 I'm not sure that I understand what you're saying because 50 says that there shall be imposed a consumption tax.
 Was imported in Canada payable in accordance with the provision of the custom Act.
 Yes.
 So this
 it doesn't say that you don't have to be clear something under the customer.
 It says that the Customs are just unnecessary in the case.
 No, no, it does not your part. This section does not.
 Okay. So which section because you're
 sexually 51.
 Shows the acceptance 5146 not apply on the sale orientation of good mention is schedule 3.
 Yes. So the fact that there's no hats.
 Why does it mean that you don't have
 because there is no taxi to be collected in accordance with the Customs that.
 Will have to look at the provision of the first analysis.
 I don't think it leaves you.
 determine whether
 is the if you recall that the provision of the customer if it says in the Care on the goods on which taxes faithful.
 The Customs act does not do that. It does not activate itself.
 It doesn't nobody doesn't say that you have to be clear.
 It does not.
 That is not the Customs Act.
 Drop to do the Customs Act only comes into effect in case there is Stacks to be collected.
 And in case there is to be collected.
 It is to be collected in accordance with the customers. That means you have to declare it and you have to pay the tax. Okay, but that's a business decision. That's fine.
 Okay.
 Bitch 20, which is one of the exemptions.
and on page 20 part 5
 contribute part 11 for an upper line part 11 of schedule 3. It's on page 22
 I remember 7 years.
 exemptions from
 a quotation tax
 that is to be collected according to the Customs Act.
 So paragraph three and four of part state that British and Canadian coins.
 and foreign gold coin
 our Exempted from importation tax
 and the application of the Customs tax.
 setup
 4 of part 11 says point of any metal but fossilized weight and designed Fisher for use as currency under the authority of the government of any country. So this would include the United States.
 are exempt from
 a partition tax and therefore collection of the importation tax 100 Customs out.
 And it follows that if if there is no tax.
 to be paid
 and the Customs act does not it does not need to be enforced. There's no point to declare things that we're not needed to be.
 Taxed and this is why your point if I take it is
 it it's
 no tax and Photon are good. And there's no you do not have to clear that we come to the Border.
 That is correct. And that is not following that logic. It's someone right at the
 border with fresh fruit.
 From another country
 you're saying it wouldn't have to.
 Declare that because no tax on.
 It's so far as the fruits that you this not use fruit as an example because there's a agricultural but where does that fit into your
 and the cutlet?
 What fruit?
 Fruits will not be declared under Customs. It would be declared as under the agriculture or not.
 Yes, but one for taxation purposes, but for germs and for other certification purposes, well, let's use a car your personal car or an object that is not subject to the other cultural or not.
 Like the coins like inner objects, the car that I was driving was not subject to the importation of dice.
 But but did you buy that car in the United States? I did not so guess that during the what the word imported me.
 Does the word important only mean bringing Goods that you required outside the country as poet returning Goods that came from Canada and are bringing back to Canada's incorrect. I believe it's the distinction is not.
 On what deportation means but on whether the taxes payable the car was no doubt imported because it was outside the country in the morning. It was inside the country in the afternoon.
 if you look like
 so, can you remind me of the the section I'm material doesn't have it and I'm going to go look for it later my book of authorities, unfortunately, or
 There's a problem with it. Yeah, so, can you just repeat to me exactly the thank you. That's where I wasn't clear and I didn't have it.
 I'm sorry. It just scheduled three part 11 points three and four.
 Okay. Thank you.
If you bring for example other foodstuffs that are for example chips or things that are not subject to agricultural controls. You do not have to report it to report it. In fact many people try to cross the border to buy their groceries and they come back.
 Does not have to be before it the same day that I came in with these coins. I have also bought some water a bottle of water and some petting mitigation. I had a headache that day medication is also exempt from taxation.
 Which is the reason why I did not have to report it. My car did not have to be reported because tax on it had already been paid when the car was initially imported into Canada. So
 it was not subject because it was not something on which.
 You had already
 because there was no tax filing on it those nuts to do to be collected.
 It's not because it was important.
 Okay, so we got your point now we have to worry because you have
 baseball
 Wow, the evidence submitted by the defendant which was only paragraph only the Customs Act is the only evidence he had to offer in support of his position that the goods are running the judge found that that position and that evidence is not helpful to his to his point and he found that in fact according to the customer to the Currency Act. The coins are in fact courtesy and legal tender in the United States or
 and they are not good.
 according to the Customs Act
 not according to the evidence.
 Okay, what's your point
 in order for him to find that they were good? She had to introduce some evidence of his own.
 that was nothing that was waiting based on what is defendant said he never
 Found this right?
 Okay, so
 You mean that he's bringing up an argument that was not put to it.
 Is that what you're saying it just argue. That is correct.
 Okay, so it was a new argument that was not put by the parties before?
 Okay, that's a different. Yeah.
 And which paragraph?
 Okay decision.
 six
 exercise
 this definition was not the owner
 know. But yeah, it was before it once you put the mat.
 Judge has to look at that the act as a whole cannot just read the acronym look at the definition.
 However, the the defendant did not submit that this is the reason why he thinks the coins are
 ya good. It's a matter of you.
 See that terms of law you can agree you can see.
 the church
 So the Act was before
 and it's not like he looked at.
 This definition of money. There's not a normative. It is only its context there's specific to section 1.3. Unfortunately my in my this is a very long section of the definitions is very long. I did not include it and in my
 authority,
 but at the heading of it says that this this definition only implies for that's Obsession. It's not a general definition of money, which does not exist in any law do not have a definition of legal definition for one money is this is only a placeholder the same.
 rewriting the same long paragraph
 Okay, so it cannot be just for the purpose of 1.3 has to be for the purpose of Park nine.
 The definition
 is adapted in part nine. So subtraction 1:23. So what you're saying, it applies only to the part or wherever it says that it applies. That
 is correct.
 Not in another act.
 That's correct.
 Okay, that's good.
 So what did he do that with that? I don't think that he
 so this was the only basis on which he found the coins can be considered Goods.
 Nothing in the defendants or the planets because of patients to give.
 Any evidence that they can be considered quotes?
 Too long. I'm in arguments you have left.
 I have
 just before just just raise the Damned because we we cannot
 okay the honor the third of 53 of the reasons for the judge called analysis of white coins are currency, but the person that reporting under section 12 of the customs.
 that is
 5345 for a section 12 one of Customs are therefore triggered.
 Yes, but you were under 10,000.
 My point is that I believe this is a
 it doesn't like you.
 It does apply to me, but if it should it should the limit of 10,000 should apply to me.
 Yes, so
 in case I did have more than 10,000 I should have had to to report them.
 Yes, but he does say that it is.
 Yes, he uses the word. The reporting obligation is provided other section 12 of the
 Customs
 not.
 his analysis pertained to
 I don't see the word customized me proceeds.
 act here's this process that
 in the first sentence, but the second sentence he talks about the reporting obligations.
 you know, but
 the reporting obligation provided for at section 121 of the proceed.
 That customers. Yeah.
 The official version is perceived at
 the correct. Yes.
 Perfect. So we'll leave that.
 Okay, so
 at this point false.
 You may have incorrect it. I know that this was corrected.
 at some point for Aires
 Not that I recall.
 Okay, that's fine.
 instead of the official version
 of the website
 from the official version.
 Well, I will take your word. I believe this is a few mistake to make and it'll be awesome.
 So let's go to the next one
 the next one.
 but overlooks specifically section 501
 Which deals with the importation the only generally looks at?
 This I probably maybe might not even if
 you can write. Okay next.
 Because we don't have a choice. We have their appeals this afternoon and your friend ask is entitled to his time.
 You are on a
 motion for summary judgment
 It should be.
 It should not be granted. Okay?
 some of judgment the judge needs to have confidence in his so sufficient evidence must be available that he can confidently determine the matter if you
 Well 58 is goods are broken sensor 68.
 6868
 having concluded both the customers and the proceeds are applied by currently. I will address the issue of overlapping provisions.
 And then he discusses the character further below it that paragraph 70 the course. I recognized the scope and application.
 Okay.
 And he talks about conflict on overlap.
 Okay,
 so that's the wording of complex.
 Yes.
 You're saying.
 Absolutely.
 has not argue that the coins they probably said
 oh.
 Which is part of the motion record.
 So
 Benjamin paragraph 915 of the year?
 Exactly that point,
 okay.
 So 65 page paragraph 9. Okay next.
 You are pet the other significant errors that had.
 felt was
 135 is
 for judicial review
 By the cost of job so means that there's the decision of the minister not.
 Not to try to delete his own decision based on Fresh evidence.
 But there is
 un-french that a new evidence. That's the purpose of doing it by way of action.
 No, honor.
 but as part of
 I'm very sorry. I have to disagree.
 No, okay, but let's do this with
 you in a very short time.
 It's three hours.
 I understand
 we are bound by the Chief Justice duration.
 Review The Minister's conservation of the evidence beforehand. Yes, and whether he reached a conclusion in a intelligible manner according to dance more.
 so the minister that the plaintiff has a chance to defend against it how
 Was that he was not deciding the action he was deciding a summary judgment based on a question of law.
 So if you say it was not enough to determine that question to to strike the action say that and then we'll pass the next one.
 Because there are two different things it was not deciding the action.
 It was deciding whether there was a genuine issue.
 Yes a genuine issue about whether or not the corns.
 was requested so he had to find whether he would be
 What?
 I didn't mention is that in order?
 my place at the minister
 said
 and this alone should have been grounded to find that the decision should be set up even before looking at whether the goods.
 He didn't need an extra urgent.
 Well, that is all I can say in the time that I've been here. Yes,
 and that's bent you've covered all your points.
 So thank you very much. You've done very well and you will have a short time for you buy after you hear the other
 side.
 Thank you.
 So
 your honor in terms of the amendment of you?
 If you've read the crowns that random fact and law.
 He is really covered all very squarely by the decision of this court and table and I don't propose to take you through it that sets out the the standard of a few very clearly. And in fact, this case is the only case that sighted for the proposition. That
 was what happened.
 So the crowd submission is that the standard of you would apply to both.
 As either A or B and so in this case.
 I'm not sure that right. Yes.
 That was the point.
 So no evidence is required to a Cold Justice crisis decision that the Amendments have no Prospect of success. He was entitled to look at the the pleadings on their face the proposed amendments without getting into any evidence beyond that
 and that was your position before.
 Yes
 reading the key things per se.
 It was enough to come to work. Yes.
 Okay
 with respect to the second appeal for some reason the the test of course is set up very clearly that Justice Gleason was to consider the testing and react and molded that case also sets up the standard overview for this court an appellate review the first level or the second level. In fact, it deals with the upload a colored review at the Supreme Court level the crowd submission is that that same standard applies in this court in dealing with emotion for summary judgment where the federal court deals with it, but other than a Persona series
 You agree that 221 is a motion to strike.
 Yes 2
 15 is the rule for the summer third,
 right?
 So
 and
 frankly, I have some difficulty and that's why I'm raising it just speaking for myself at this stage and we decided in anything but I have some difficulty with the argument.
 You cannot add an action.
 parts
 purpose
 rather than remove them and separate them as different action there. You would have to mold maybe bring emotion to strike on the 2.1.
 Either because no reason no cost. No children.
 I just can't understand why you say I'm going to try other things just because you feel that 135 should be on its own.
 The crown like substance over form over substance
 the crown did bring emotion to strike and that was dismissed by proprietary motion ski, she suggested that there's motion for some regiments.
 Respect to which portion of the action?
 Again, related to the question of law simply boiled down to whether the conduct an issue could be resolved by determining whether the coins are Goods or not.
 Because that is the only conduct that was an issue in.
 The plaintiff's
 claims,
 of course, the cling can be framed however, a plaintiff wishes and it can be very expensive particularly where things are acting in person. But nonetheless the only issues with the federal court will consider is the question of in this case whether the coins are goods and Justice League was very clear about that point that section the Customs act provides a very limited review in this. It's not really an ordinary action at all. It's a statutory appeal by way about
 keep to
 this would be the key question to all the planes because my question to you is not whether you can put them in the same proceeding which is procedural. Okay?
 What courts do when things are put together? That should not be put together?
 a separate them
 They don't just strike it.
 Unless there is no mirror, but you have to have emotion nothing at the middle of the other stuff.
 If you're saying to me and that's what I heard that this one question was determinative of all of the other plans. That's a different story, but I couldn't see it when I read.
 Now it was not evident to me just because I didn't see it, you know.
 That one question. Are you good?
 Is enough to determine the merits of all the other times?
 I take your point, but obviously Justice Gleason. Yes.
 Okay, so that he thinks differently is another story
 and the crown submits that the only issue that was the required any review whatsoever. Whether it's by summary judgment or at a trial.
 Claim was whether the goods are whether their coins are Goods.
 I assume that you try to convince him of that. So now is your time to practice convince us of that.
 But that's the point here
 if the coins are not good. They're then clearly the defendant loses the case.
 It's full stop and if the coins are good.
 What else is available to my friend under a statutory of this is not
 an actually.
 What would you be losing?
 I think it's fair to say that Justice Gleason that there was no Prospect of success for those claims. There may not have been a specific motion before him at the time to strike those Clans emotion had as I said in brought previously to strike and have been dismissed.
 So that's not very good for you.
 so somebody
 in this case, is that Mr.
 Oh sure
 has the right.
 To present his argument as to whether to be strive.
 Yes. So
 let's start from there.
 If the court disagrees with Justice Gleason that those ancillary claims should not have been struck then if you if you follow through on that proposition, then you can make a determination on emotional for some reason whether the coins are goods and allow the rest of the things to proceed and set it back to federal court and rest assured like
 okay, but you see my point I do just wait.
 here
 then we'd be fine, but I don't see how you
 I just and I'm not talking for my credit just me so convinced me.
 You know if you think you can't but procedure.
 You know, he hasn't 135.
 Yes,
 and yes, I write of action maybe for damages and for whatnot. Maybe he's wrong. Okay.
 Well that the coins are good. It's difficult to conceive that he would have a clean for Humanity of Damages because he hasn't alleged that he was mistreated in their way by border officers,
 Daniel.
 Yes.
 Okay now have you considered?
 He responsible for fraud.
 So that would be easy for you to produce cases. Yes.
 And last year as until June.
 6
 June
 7th so many days do you need to
 as many as you relationships, but I don't need much time.
 So an extra day because you'll start looking now, of course, so by the 9th,
 yes.
 So, you know.
 When we send it back, there may be a lot more hurdle under them reasonable cause of action on its face just because of the warning the communication and whatnot. Yes. Okay, you're all following on that.
 I am. Yes,
 okay.
 Okay. Now you want to say anything else about the Amendments or are you
 yes
 now?
 Can you show me where they work?
 They weren't stuck. It's just made the comments. So in fact, no that's right. They were not actually struck that he simply decided the issue about whether the coins are goods. And then of course whether they're points are currently and subject to his findings. He decided to dismiss the entire action.
 with he didn't strike it
 he just
 You realize how it becomes very important.
 Yes, you would have to find that the ruling on coins as goods and currency was determinative of all the claims in the plaintiff's claim.
 or that procedure form
 Yes.
 You override the substance and you can just because you haven't put it on in the same state.
 Yes.
 So
 in the federal court, the crown of the position of the coins are Goods Justice Gleason found that they are both goes in currency and a lot of appeal to this court. The crown is having to support Justice Gleason's ruling on both those points.
 The crown referred to settle pieces of legislation before Justice Gleason the crown repeat those submissions. But in addition the crown is rely on the Customs tariff, which I started in the memorandum as well as two cases decided under the federal export and important permits. Both are fairly old cases, but they made their point of
 okay.
 In my own mind the first one I would like you to clarify if you can is the proposition that if something there's no tax to be paid. It doesn't need to be declared on yes. There's an obligation to declare under another act
 right that is not
 stuck with that.
 But it's absolutely false if the broad during the trip to be declared it must be
 Absolutely must be reported. Even if there's no tax is to be paid on it in terms of custom duties because they need each.
 Okay. So where do we have that provision that says if you exceed you?
 Yes 48 hours. That's all it is.
 Where do we have that provision?
 So you're looking for the specific provision and the customers are
 yes, because you say that.
 so
 yes,
 so I reproduced provisions of the Customs act that the end of my
 memorandum of but those particular Provisions would
 out in the regulations, which
 as you
 not believe I have reproduced in full.
 So I would have to provide that to you subsequently.
 We have the customer service.
 Yes.
 Exactly. Yeah,
 no
 because you do realize that that was one of his main artist.
 throughout
 it's not an interior.
 Well, it's a bit of a surprise argument for that. It's just because there is no Duty owing a good doesn't have to be reported.
 For example, let's take it the keys out of this case. If the ghosts are currency if their value is an excessive 10,000 dollars
 Express seat.
 Yes, they have to be reported but there's no taxable on those.
 Yes, but I think what the shoes
 yes,
 there could be a series of other stations.
 so
 We need something tangible other than it makes no it's false. So.
 I thought that that argument was raised in the
 after announcement
 if it is, but I mean, are you asking for this citation to the regulation that
 I want a piece?
 There's no case.
 Okay,
 what I could do what I can offer to the court is when the time comes from it and the case law on the Frog of the public servant I can provide as well to reference to the specific provision in the regulation that the deals with a specific limits.
 We don't want to extend this if you could provide.
 The second section will be whatever you have to say about the regulation that is being raised in the okay. This is not a memorandum. Okay, all this must not be more than five pages.
 all
 I just want that to be put
 because he the plaintiff paid and this is called US dollars for these 5700 for these coins when in fact that represented 29.5 times their face value.
 So
 so there's an obligation to disclose it just because it was over is exemption. Yes, whether or not there was definitely
 And are you going to address the urine deportation of those Provisions that if you push us through?
 Yes.
 Unless you have any further questions. Those are always missions.
 So the provisions that you asked about the regulations the limits.
 well lady I have I mean I can take you through Justice Gleason's decision and detail, but the Supreme Court of Canada has said that you know, the
 Pellet report does not need to conduct the same analysis that was conducted by the federal.
 Sorry. This is a question of milk.
 Yes question of no. Yes.
 Okay. So are we here that some question of North Korea's?
 Yes.
 Okay, so why are not are we not conducting it ourselves?
 So his question was that Justice Gleason is arguments that Justice.
 just because that particular section is not referred to expressly Injustice and the decision doesn't mean that that
 Legislation was cited to him act was before him.
 he
 refer to numerous pieces of legislation in his decision dealing with currently.
 So let's say you had drugs manure and decides to bring back its.
 under 1000 and by the
 $1 bill that are over
 VIP that it doesn't have to be carried up.
 Yes, because he has to declare it as good. It's not money laundering. It's
 you bring the flowing hair dollar coin, which I
 Refer to my memory and there's a picture of it at the back of my book of authorities. If you brought that and brought it into Canada, you would have to declare it as a good because purchased it. Well, the last time it was bought it was bought for 10 million dollars US.
 You don't have to declare it under the proceeds of finding money longer. Yeah, because the face value is less than 10000 dollars Canadian.
 Declared only as a good the proceeds Act only comes into play if the face value of the money that may or may not be longer is over 10,000 dollars.
 And what about if that's right, then you can put to the bank or in your I'm just I'm just puzzled by the fact that you don't think that people have to declare.
 Well
 the million dollar they bring in it's just because it's on Facebook.
 Yes. I understand really the money laundering provisions of the process of climactic not apply to collectible coins that have a very low face value but a very high fair market value.
 It's like bringing in diamonds. The proceeds act just doesn't apply in terms of money ordering even though a drug Smuggler or a terrorist can bring one diamond and it's easily over ten thousand dollars. It's different legislation that applies to catch that.
 precedes Act only applies to the implication of actual currency and only
 I would have to check but I believe.
 Well, no.
 we have a judgment that
 based on that and we don't have we
 have the provision that is an issue whether but we don't have
 we don't have the entire act before the court in my in my local history.
 And yeah, but
 yeah the specific provision.
 So the reporting that if we know can react phase but
 it is understood by the Water Service officers that they are to buy that.
 Yes, I mean it's suitable you could have old Canadian dollar bills that are worth much more than one dollar right now, but still with not be within the 10,000 11 without me over. They don't have to be declared.
 Because of their Facebook but if the terrorists goes to sell it, you know and pains more than 10,000 dollars. Obviously. That's a problem.
 Respect of the Declaration for good and money. Yes.
 And you rely on your written submission?
 Yes.
 And that's
 well look in terms of the question. You asked me did the Justice please and consider section 11 of the currency actors to take one of my friends arguments.
 At paragraph 50 of Justice Gleason's reasons for decision the votes almost a page and a half of his reasons for decision to citing Section 8, for example, the Customs Act.
 I simply want to raise the point that the game that he simply because he hasn't specifically cited section 11 doesn't mean he didn't
 considered.
 Yes.
 Yes, so is there something wrong in this video?
 No.
 I don't think I'm following it. But
 let's look at paragraph 65 to judge is the plaintiff has not argued that the coins have found to be good. For example.
 I see what your pointing as whether or not
 yes. Yes.
 Absolutely accurate on that point.
 I
 would have to take you to his notice his written representations file in response to the motion for summary judgment.
 So let's look at
 That problem with my book on page.
 factor for the people
 above value 1 in 102 Dash 18
 to look at
 I think you're saying it should be it should be page 121.
 Okay that can you look at your book and it may be one page
 1214.
 No.
 anyway
 Whether or not the judge accepted as if
 an issue exactly yes. Yes, that's the point of situation way
 and you don't have nine and tell us if you think it's the same argument that they've got 65
 because maybe it's not the same argument.
 Well, the
 plaintiff has been admitted.
 the evidence
 Is paid 5700 us for the points? So clearly that if the coins are good that would trigger the reporting requirements.
 So what do we have at 9?
 But now we're talking about the difference in nine we're talking about.
 which is a neighboring which
 you can section 12 1 of the question Act.
 All Goods that are important shawl except in such circumstances subject that may be prescribed the reported to the news.
 So all Goods that are important.
 Yes, so
 you're saying that argument?
 I think that argument must have been made to the judge because the
 pleaded that he paid an amount and accessibility allowable limit not to report
 so we did Judge and spoke when he says the argument.
 It's possible, but I don't see that anything turns
 out.
 Okay, that's yes.
 I didn't anticipate that the plaintiff is going to take issue with something on this with respect to this particular sentence in just
 That point in his memorandum.
 Okay, so that board has nothing to remember and food.
 and it's not
 Okay, I don't see anything turning on.
 Okay. The next point was a paragraph 68.
 The reference to the fact that there are overlapping for vision in itself shows.
 Just the mere fact that they're open up does not mean that there's a conflict and what Justice Gleason did was review all of the different pieces of relevant legislation very clearly and crafts together.
 The clear the clear proposition that could that point these collector coins are votes.
 There was no easy answer for him. There was no definition of money in any of his eyes, but by looking at all of the piece of legislation, which he has carefully sited at length in his long decision. He found as a fact that points are Goods.
 Yeah, that's a matter of law.
 Yes.
 There is no restructure.
 Okay, the next point that was raised and
 the happiness argues that this question knowing was not a knot and the judge at also consider.
 whether the decision under appeal was otherwise
 the federal court on the motion for southern was to the term and whether the coins were Goods or currency or both.
 An outcome of that determination was determinate of the entire statutory appeal.
 There was no need to allow any of the other claims to proceed.
 And Justice League so far.
 And the ministerial decision to be clear was not.
 Technically something that he judicially reviewed. This is a statue of action. So Justice Gleason technically did not need to consider the ministerial decision Beyond its actual outcome
 because it's you know,
 yes.
 What different evidence?
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Yes,
 so you're not
 no,
 okay.
 Whatever the merits you have to go by the rules,
 absolutely.
 Okay, I think.
 We're talking when you type of the goods that have been reported you say there was ahead and reported with those internet of your attention.
 Doctor said first referred to percentage of your personal limitation personal exemption.
 Yes. Yes, that's true. But here the goods were clearly accessible. Yes, as a matter of law. Yes. The only time he has to report Goods is if it's over the I believe it's a hundred dollars. Okay.
 Yes. I
 know that I have no I'm not bringing back anything that I have to
 declare.
 You have to disclose that he's bought Goods, but they did not subject to the reporting requirements under the Customs. Act was the first person's Act.
 Yes, see instead of buying.
 Yes.
 He wouldn't have happened.
 No.
 But technically to answer your question Lord, he would have had to say yes. I have bought Goods, but I have nothing to be quit. He couldn't simply say I have not purchased any good surge during
 my trip because on the form it says do you bring any good over the
 minute on the form? Yes, but if you're actually asked this was a land Crossing if you're asked by the Border Services officers squarely having purchased anything abroad technically. You should say I haven't purchased anything over that you
 that there are exemptions.
 And I will provide those things actually provide exception to section 12. Yes.
 You all have those exemptions when we travel abroad typically for alcohol. Everybody knows that.
 And that's regardless of whether or not you're obliged to pay taxes.
 Yes.
 Because
 those exemptions did not apply to the plaintiff. I
 did not like authorities, but I will provide
 okay.
 Like client is successful in this court. My client will ask for cost of the appeals but successful was divided in the court below so it would only be respect to the appeals and like when you have to have access to
 have to concede that's success would be divided to that.
 And in the first instance, you did say each part you better in it.
 Don't go. Yes.
 Success was clearly divided before Justice.
 Thank you.
 Reply is just about what to say.
 Okay.
 However there my friend made quite a few actually responded but quite a few points. I'd like to start with 101 the amendment here.
 Was relied on her neck in order to drive.
 the principles under which
 amendment may be struck her up is was
 he can't this is in your memory?
 the amendment
 to refuse the interfuse the amendment. Yes, and you've already told us about the jurisprudence.
 Yes, however, several would not apply just don't do the Supreme Court and
 whatnot. So why it wouldn't apply
 developed because it was guidance for summary judgment motions. Not for many emotions.
 Perfect next.
 next
 my friend said
 That did not allow this treatment, which is not correct. One of those specific claims is against popular debut for threats and
 try to yes, and then you you're saying
 Okay.
 Here there's fun. Also missed submissions about them limitations for officers or and you know Honor made a point about the hurdles.
 of having time limitations fortunately, in this case the timers of limitations have not even started
 we
 what do you
 find Farmers have not started the
 Individuals are still expecting this Ransom payment for Return of the money. So that means that the
 fraught is continuing its not a finished transaction.
 Oh,
 it has not
 the judge didn't determined anything.
 No, that was a point. So
 you don't need to reply. I'm just I think we were discussing what you need to face later down the road if we return it.
 And about the basic section exemptions, there's fun and mix the arc the daily that respond makes the argument that some of the exemptions that come under schedule 3 of the exact Tax Act to apply which are the exemptions with respect to time spent outside the 800 dollars per day.
 Yes. Yeah.
 There are some exceptions with respecting
 my point my reply is that the same exemptions or the exemptions that that he refers to come from the same place as the exemption for coin they all come from schedule 3. So the point is if there is an exemption for time spent outside of Canada. This would be equally for all the other
 heels.
 is going to give us the regulation and you're gonna have
 so that's when it's easy to put their
 very well.
 the respondent also stated at 8 that he wouldn't he would be happy that a Smuggler would declare a large sum of
 gold coins as goods and this
 however, he said
 I believe he said that depending on the amount of gold coins, there would have to be reported. However, they retired the drive of the upstairs apartment. Was that no amount?
 that there is no amount of
 no prescribed amount for coins know
 we're just we're not talking about the president.
 No amount of gold coins would have to be reported.
 No, he said they would have to be
 so that's one section and then he didn't say that he said
 contradicts
 himself by saying that there is a limit and for the proceeds act the cbsa and is India and the evidence before the judge. There's a memo about precious metals where coins such as these and other financial instruments that are gold bars for example are not to be reported.
 Okay, we cannot exist in the appears.
 to the precious metals
 and what is the temperature
 next exercise document?
 says that
 that
 currency gold and silver precious metals
 So it's just in a different appeal.
 It is in both the Army.
 Okay, and that would be too I was actually document. So what is it that you're saying is a contradiction of what you said
 so that internal memo is trucks. Simply say officers is
 where
 No.
 because
 your page 100 of the appeal book, which is the second page of the metal.
 first second page of the mouth
 coins are also to be treated as goods and not as currency and not the word not is underlying.
 The last sentence of that of that paragraph says across border currency and monitor instrument report, which is formed
 Easton this as anything it's a characteristic kitchen. How does that have to do with the procedure?
 Because it instructs the last sentence instructs officers. Do not require reporting under the monetary instrument.
 regulations
 of course border currencies
 and that is without regard to the amount.
 So I would give one minute after you're done for an answer from the other side because normally these things that are already raised by you have to be raised all in the first time around.
 I'm sorry, that's high pressure that I would like under.
 Yes. Pretty good. Okay. So with the next Point
 next point that makes is that
 that declaring financial instruments and gold currency under the Customs act would be sufficient reported. Even if they wanted is large such as a terrorist or a Smuggler the problem is that they
 The two reporting regimes address different names the person that reports go to the fin track organization, which is able to track and find patterns and financial movement. Whereas customers report only go to Industry Canada populations to find out generally how our economy is doing so a report
 First the Customs act would be would go under the radar.
 And they will not be able to.
 To find okay, but it has really not
 much application.
 Your case,
 I believe I believe this is exactly what the cbsa is trying to do
 know because you're under 1000.
 It doesn't apply to my case
 know it's what I'm saying.
 It doesn't apply to my four points, but my client that is
 a that's not
 the point next point.
 No, he said that you make the argument
 is what would have been determinative and his
 About the Cog about the conflict.
 Where we're just glisten.
 Their Spanish says that there is international conflict. However it paragraph 72 of the decision just released him says there's no real content.
 And that implies that there is a conflict is just not to be seen as real.
 Yeah.
 The other with respect to the novel treatment of the of the case the denominator treatment applies to the action as a whole which means that every every claim in the action has to be considered the novel.
 It doesn't mean that
 the rest of the reaction was never before
 it's
 the first time.
 Yes. However, it doesn't mean that the
 appeal is expected section 135 needs to be determined the novel and even if it did if the judge had a lot of 35 from the beginning there was no evidence before and what's the weather of any contravention? There was no evidence of what was or was not important.
 the next
 there's all I have on
 how to and then I correct that it was not disputed that you did not declare those comments.
 Correct?
 It's not descriptive than they were fine.
 Or what their face value was and what their purchases?
 which is the officer that the search and the finding that he noted at the very end that he understands that the coins are technically currents, but
 he needs to treat him as Goods because of this metal. That is right.
 I would like yes, I do. Of course. Yes.
 You're not annoying. So, you know except for you this version and things like that.
 Well your honor in the evening the motion to strike at the responded mate earlier in the case. I still have mental to time.
 Make the submission together with the others check my favorite work. And yes,
 and when you do that you have to put
 it because the respondents conduct has been.
 A very heavy-handed and vacation. I like to point out.
 that
 before you do this things the judge didn't find anything fixation or anything.
 No, I'm making point about costs on the appeal.
 Yes, but we haven't seen anything that says before I
 like to submit the letter that the respondent submitted to the registry with respect to the elements submission of
 Of the memoranda. He lied on the you know lyrics that the registry cleaning that the service was done in properly so far in this case that
 there's bottom has fight every way possible to slow down and to make it more expensive to
 it's all redeemed religious.
 You didn't ask for it. Then you remember and
 in my
 memorandum
 and none of the
 yes,
 you know
 that's supposed to do for everything about Cooks.
 normal costs
 Now thank you very much
 sure that bulletin free data Justice League Seasons ruler. It was a thing that during the discovery process prior to the motion for some reason. So obviously that fully would have to be updated with respect to the treatment of currency.
 Was it?
 It's not before the church
 it
 why would it be in the
 pill book? Because the well because the talent
 the appellant has put several documents that were in a veil produced him and Discovery into the book
 while you're supposed to object to that.
 yes, well lady he
 I did ask for us specific ruling that we'd be allowed to file separate books of authorities just as an example and that was granted. It was Justice Renny. There's a history in this file of not being able to agree on what documents should go into which books
 it wasn't part of the evidence that the plaintiff submitted for his motion to Amendment.
reasons
 to the extent that the bulletin
 Is
 a part of the evidence?
 Not that would have been an affidavit for the motion to strike.
 That's the same. It's not the same work we're looking at what was on the record for the summer judgment motion and emotional
 they were different they were different affidavits filed for both.
 So this would not have been
 know
 what you check your files
 the point.
 To take away though was the bulletin would have to be corrected. Give him Justice Gleason's ruling on currents.
 Right the whole point here. Is that the bullets and seems to imply that the Border Services officers are not to treat collector coins as currency.
 And Justice Gleason in effect change the law. He said it's booked coins and curse.
 Okay.
 So what you're saying is that?
 This may have been an internal administrative.
 View,
 yes.
 but
 it's not one that is in sync with the findings of Justice.
 Yes, and it predates justice questions through it.
 And that's why I want to make sure that and that would be the sentence is in paragraph 53.
 Yes.
 because
 they decide not to
 and that
 okay, so I understand here.
 So thank you very much. We will take this on the reserve. He's
 order
 sitting is now concluded.